>> This is "Nuevo,
Teleportation to Mars."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> Today on "Nuevo,"
a story that, if true,
would be the most extraordinary
discovery of our times.
According to three witnesses,
teleportation to Mars
is not just possible, but it is
an unexpected reality that has
been used for almost 30 years.
>> How could we
possibly be on Mars?
And nobody would believe me if
I said I'm invited to go to Mars
and that there's
serious technologies,
and the people that are
behind recruiting me
have incredible technologies and
a serious mission to get there.
>> As a six-year-old, I first
teleported with my late father,
Raymond F. Basiago, who was
one of the project principals.
And beginning in
the very beginning
of the summer of
1981, Courtney Hunt
was asking me a question I
really didn't want to be asked.
And that question was, so, tell
me, do you want to go to Mars?
And then in the late June of
1981, I said, why should I go?
Why are you asking
me to go to Mars?
And he said, because the
survival of human life
depends on it.
I'm speaking out
now for two reasons.
One is we're going to be
needing this technology
to save our civilization.
So I think that's
important a reason enough.
People, I think, also have
a human right, a birthright,
to a true telling of the natural
history of the solar system
that we inhabit.
>> Is not this dangerous for
you to speak about all this?
>> Yes, and I've realized
since the inception
of my investigation that I might
be assassinated for carrying
out my investigation of
such a sensitive topic.
But that's a risk that
I'm willing to take.
Teleportation has been
used since at least
around 1980 to place
human personnel on Mars.
Why do I know that?
I know that because
I participated
in later activities in which
that is what we were doing.
When I was trained
on Project Pegasus,
that they were utilizing 140
American school children.
>> Was it dangerous
for the children?
>> Yes, it was new, dangerous,
and experimental when we began
teleporting.
So they were
actually training us
to contingency plan
for the possibility
that we might be lost in time,
which was a very fearsome thing
to contemplate for those
of us in the program.
We were concerned about
literally leaving this time
and being stuck in another one.
>> One, they wanted to test
the mental and physical effects
of teleportation on children.
Two, they had these
electro-optical devices
called chronovisors
that prompted
moving holographic images
of past and future events.
The third purpose is that
they knew that children
are exceptionally accurate
in their observations,
or at least they tend to be much
more accurate than what adults
report that they're seeing.
Their perceptions are
not influenced in the way
that adults' perceptions are by
the selection bias of what they
have previously experienced.
The fourth reason,
and that which
we were most excited
about, is they told us
that in adulthood, we would
be admitted to the US Naval
Academy at Annapolis, and that
would be used as a pretext
to involve us in future
time travel activities,
that we were being trained
to become America's
first cadre of chrononauts
in a secret program that
would run parallel to
the US space program.
>> Could Nikola Tesla's
experiments been successful?
We are convinced of that today.
We believe it is possible
to teleport a human being
successfully without injury.
We have proof that
scientists have been working
on teleportation for
at least 30 years
and have been successful
on at least two occasions.
The first was
almost 20 years ago,
when a photon was teleported
at a distance of 800 meters.
And the second
occurred in 2016, when
scientists from China
and Canada managed
to teleport photons through
fiber optics between the two
countries.
The good news is that
in 2017, the same.
scientists in China were able
to take a photon to space
and use the quantum method for
teleportation of the photon.
However, there are reports
that the United States
Army has been using
teleportation for a few decades
now.
But this has not been confirmed
by the Armed Forces of America.
We have heard that Army
scientists have managed
to teleport a fully equipped
group of nine soldiers
from the United States
Army Natick Soldier System
Center, SSC, to a
training site in Germany.
The SSC is a military
research complex installation
in Natick, Massachusetts.
The nine volunteers
had completed
individual advanced training
and were participating
in experiments using the
Doriot Environmental Climate
Chambers at SSC when
they disappeared
and moments later materialized
in the Hydra Sever Training
Site in Germany
completely unharmed.
The chambers can replicate any
climate's environment or time
zone in the world, but they
had never been used in this way
before.
Teleportation was made famous
in the "Star Trek" television
series and movies.
The Army called the process
the Natick Incident,
a hypothetical way of moving
objects from place to place.
American writer Charles
Fort is reported
to have coined the
word Natick in 1931.
Natick officials were
enthusiastic about the event
that promises to one
day revolutionize
the way in which United States
troops and equipment could
be moved or transported
around the world.
It could also ultimately
make overseas bases obsolete,
as forces would
move from US soil
to remote points of conflict
in the blink of an eye.
"Nobody is more impressed
by this than I am,"
said Benjamin Storm, 61,
who manages Natick's Climate
Chambers.
One moment he was chatting
with the young soldiers,
and the next they all
vanished in the air.
The soldiers were
dressed in combat gear
for the revolutionary
experiment and supervised
by STORM and his colleagues
when they were sent
from one continent to another.
Photographs of the
chambers from the event
were captured and have
been revealed by the Army.
After thorough
medical examinations
at an Army hospital, they
flew back to the United States
and returned to their
duties at Natick.
"It's one thing to see Captain
Kirk or Mr. Spock do it
in the movies, but it's
something else when
it happens to you in
real life," said, Kelley
McCoy, one of the
teleported soldiers.
"I felt a little tingling,
and the next thing I knew,
I was in Bavaria, Germany.
I always wanted to
visit Europe, but I
thought I would go by plane."
Benjamin Storm and
other Natick researchers
are now poring over mountains
of data and research
in hopes of duplicating
teleportation.
Meanwhile, the Army
quickly established
a Teleportation
Study Task Force,
which will be based on Natick.
Leading scientists from
private industry and academia
from around the
globe are gathering
at the Client Chambers
at SSC in Massachusetts
to provide whatever
help they can.
According to Storm, a device
similar to the flux capacitor,
seen in the "Back to
the Future" movies
was used during the experiment.
This led to
immediate speculation
that the US Army was also
working on time travel.
But it is believed that in
order for time travel to work,
they would have to generate 1.21
gigawatts, not a trivial feat.
Storm is quoted as saying,
"We are only concerned
with place, not the time.
This development could change
the course of human history,"
Storm said with a
gleam in his eye.
This story, like Andrew
Basiago's claims,
could be science fiction.
However, the stories
could also be true.
Today, it isn't possible to
confirm them as authentic.
Only time will tell
if teleportation is
possible in the 21st century.
>> What are we doing trying
to fund teleportation when
it's existed for 40 years?
I'm not lying.
I can give you the
names of the locations
we were taken to, where time
travel activities occurred.
I can give you the name
and describe the structure
and function of the devices.
I'm giving the name not only of
project insiders, whose names
will show up in government
records as a result of entering
certain facilities or having
security badges and so forth.
I can give you the names
of their friends in places
like New Mexico and
New Jersey who were
aware of what was going on.
>> The question we ask is, why
were children used for this
experiment?
We asked Andrew
Basiago that question.
>> Nikola Tesla found a way to
create an apparatus that draws
radiant energy from the
time-space continuum.
Radiant energy is a form of
energy that he discovered.
It is a latent and
pervasive in the universe.
>> According to Andrew Basiago,
who practices law in Portland,
Oregon, his father was a
scientist who worked with
the CIA and was involved in
teleportation experiments
in the early 1960s.
>> My father and I first jumped
through a Tesla teleporter
in Building 68 at the old Curtis
Wright Aeronautical Company
facility in
Woodbridge, New Jersey,
sometime between September of
1967 and September of 1968.
We know that because we arrived
in the state capital complex
in Santa Fe.
The teleport would
open up a tunnel
in the time-space continuum.
You would find yourself
moving through it.
And when the tunnel closed, you
would find yourself elsewhere
on the surface of the planet.
>> Andrew Basiago only traveled
in the Tesla transporter when
he was a child.
Years later, he did it again.
But on that occasion, the CIA
career officer Courtney Hunt,
cousin of Howard Hunt, one
of the Watergate figures,
would convince Andrew Basiago to
participate in a teleportation
program to the planet Mars.
>> So in July 1981, I met
him at the corner of Mason
and Devonshire in
Chatsworth, California.
In his car, we drove
to the office building
that is at the corner of
North Sepulveda Boulevard
and Imperial
Boulevard, immediately
southeast of the grounds of
the Los Angeles International
Airport.
The address of that building is
999 North Sepulveda Boulevard.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> And Courtney Hunt was
speaking to me through
the telecom and saying,
are you ready and so forth.
And I finally grew impatient
because I wanted to go to Mars.
I don't like waiting for things.
And so I borrowed
a line, I believe
that was from Alan Shepard
during the space program, which
was, "light this candle."
Maybe it was John Glenn.
But I cribbed some wording from
one of the American astronauts.
And I said, rather impatiently,
"light this candle."
I was really
growing exasperated.
I couldn't tell that
much was happening.
All that was happening
was that panels
of light on the top and
bottom of the elevator
started blinking.
And then about 10 minutes into
the 20-minute journey to Mars,
the entire form of
this box-like elevator
began to morph and crumple
and reposition itself
into a cylinder.
And when that happened, I had
to steady myself in the elevator
such as you would if you were
walking through a water main.
You're walking in a
cylindrical object,
so you have to kind
of steady yourself.
And I saw that the
ceiling had become
the surface I was looking at.
And I could see this
sort of swirling pattern.
They'd opened up a vortal tunnel
in the fabric of time-space,
just as the teleporter
did back when I
was a child on Project Pegasus.
And that lasted for maybe
two to four minutes or so,
and then it became a cylinder.
And then it began
correcting itself,
and then it just completely
rectified its original shape.
And then about 10 minutes later,
as Courtney had described,
the door opened,
and I walked out
into what looked like,
if you can imagine
the basement of a modern sports
arena, the infrastructure
of that built into an
existing underground cavern
of an ancient civilization.
There was a big cave in which I
could see these modern tension
struts, a sort of infrastructure
that had been placed inside,
and the jump room
itself had been placed
inside this ancient cavern.
I walked through
what was clearly
the irregular eye sockets
of some kind of skull
on the surface.
I turned around.
I could see it was a skull.
I could see the rust-red
terrain of Mars.
I could see that Mars
has a pale blue sky.
I could see, or sense, rather,
that Mars smelt of gunpowder,
which must have been some
sulfur content, at least
at that location.
>> What is the
temperature on Mars?
What do they keep on Mars?
>> It was about 70 degrees.
Now, the conventional
scientific literature about Mars
states either that Mars
is prohibitively cold
or that Mars has
temperate regions that
would be survivable by humans.
And I turned, and I
saw a small human being
from our civilization
on Earth run up to me.
And then two more individuals
a couple years older than me--
and I would say they were
maybe 21, 22, 23 years of age--
ran up to me, two
men and a woman.
And I was interacting
with the first individual
who ran up to my location.
And they were clearly
human beings from Earth.
They weren't Martians.
They looked normal.
They were speaking English.
[WIND BLOWING]
>> That's one of the bases.
>> I think it might be a base.
What we can say is
that this is a detail.
It's an enlargement of a segment
of one of the glass tubes
that have been found in
various places on Mars.
They seem to be artificial
structures that have
been built around this ribbing.
And then some kind
of glassine substance
has been extruded across
the reinforcements.
>> The European probe Mars
Express shot these amazing
photos, evidence of what appears
to be artificial structures
or remnants of buildings,
terraces, walkways,
all in disarray, demolished and
ruined by history or calamity.
There is some very
substantial evidence
that could provide meaning
and credibility to the story
that Andrew Basiago tells.
The human figure photographed by
the Spirit rover near the Gusev
crater is remarkable, as we see
in this panoramic shot obtained
from the NASA archives.
This image was taken between
November 6 and 9 of 2007.
This female figure
was not discovered
until it was found in
NASA images in 2008.
>> That photograph has been the
subject of widespread global
scrutiny because it contains an
anomaly that apparently looks
like the figure of a human
female in a blue dress
on the far leftward or southward
edge of the Home Plate plateau.
The US garment achieved
time travel 40 years ago
and was using it to
reach Mars at least no
later than 30 years ago.
>> Think trillions of dollars
are going towards a backup plan
instead of the problems at
hand to protect our planet.
Then it's obvious that it's a
part of something that does not
have our best interests in mind
that is manipulating people
to go along with something that
goes against their free will.
Because most of the money
also goes into MK weapons.
The whole 9/11 thing,
the money involved
in that that was not spoken
for before the towers fell
was invested in MK weapons.
>> And when they were spending
those trillions of dollars
in America's defense labs, they
weren't just making superior
forms of nuclear weapons.
They were spending
trillions of dollars
on all manner of technologies
that remain secret.
Rumsfeld and Governor
Richardson to step forward,
and I'm asking those
two to man up and tell
the world the truth.
And that is that they
were directly involved
in the project that I was on.
They, as career public
servants, actually
distinguished public
servants, certainly they
can now step forward as
former cabinet officers
and support what I'm
saying, because they
were direct participants in
what the program achieved.
>> People think this is crazy.
They have no idea
what is going on.
And only those
that have been led
into these sort of strange
corners and experiences
can speak on the matter.
Or else they're paying thousands
and millions and trillions
of dollars to hide it.
>> My dad was a great guy.
[SNIFFLING]
Sorry.
And then he said,
then I want you
to tell the whole world
because what we were
part of was something great.
This is the future,
and people deserve
to know what we achieved.
The time-space pioneer
children were not
individuals like myself.
We were in the second group.
The first children to
teleport and literally become
inhabitants of
the time-space age
were kids from Latin America.
>> Do you think it's true,
what is happening on Mars?
>> I do.
And Andy is such a credible
person, and so is Alfred.
And I've known them now
for I think a year or two
on this sort of
level of discussion.
And I don't doubt for a moment
anything that Andy says.
And I know that he's walked
on the surface of Mars.
>> I don't believe that it's
my responsibility to convince
people of the truth.
I think it's my responsibility
to simply stand in my truth
and tell it.
And so that's why
I'm speaking out.
And I recognize that
that was a privilege.
And certainly telling the
story of those technical
achievements,
because of the value
that they could bring to
our global civilization,
is more important than
worrying about whether I'm
going to be killed or not as
a result of coming forward.
>> Personally is to
be a truth teller,
talk about my experience
as realistically as I can,
and say that I can't
say anything for sure--
anything.
But the fact that when I
came out with my story,
I discovered that all these
other people had something
to say about it, people that
are very credible, people that
have had their lives
taken away from them.
Even somebody like Andy,
who had this happen starting
as a child who lived
to tell the tale
really does add a lot
to what I discovered.
>> Isn't this dangerous for
you, to speak about all this?
>> Yes, and I've realized
since the inception
of my investigation I might be
assassinated for carrying out
my investigation on
such a sensitive topic.
But that's a risk that
I'm willing to take.
I'm pursuing a cause that
I'm not willing to postpone,
and I believe that
I will prevail it.
And that is to inform the people
of the world that for 40 years,
we've had available to us
this revolutionary form
of transportation that we
could use to directly implement
to achieve sustainability
in the 21st century.
>> To think that there are
human beings right now on Mars,
people that traveled from
Earth, seems irrational.
And it is believed that the
so-called black projects
of the Armed Force of
the US are not even known
to the president himself.
Is it possible that the
information we have presented
is real?
Surely, when humans arrive
on Mars and can explore it,
many of our questions
will be answered.
I am Jaime Maussan, and
this is the "Nuevo."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presented, "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.